---
title: "my wikipedia poems"
source: "https://www.tumblr.com/headspace-hotel/666121703823441920/my-wikipedia-poems"
author:
  - "[[Tumblr]]"
published:
created: 2025-02-14
description: "Black HoleLegendStrangerHotelAsteroidAbyssal PlainLightningMonsterPolar NightDragonDisaster Taxon"
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
[

](https://www.tumblr.com/headspace-hotel "headspace-hotel")

[

](https://snappy-snap.tumblr.com/ "snappy-snap")

The Unapologetic Self as the Truest form of Self

THIS IS THE EXACT COMIC I WAS THINKING OF WHEN I MADE THIS BUT I COULDNT FIND IT! BLESS YOU!

headspace-hotel reblogged archosaurs birdandmoon Follow My new popular science book, A Pocket Guide to Pigeon Watching: Getting to Know the World’s Most Misunderstood Bird, is officially out! It’s full of fun facts, jokes, and wild tales.Booklist called it “the most perfect of popular science titles” and Forward Reviews says it’s “So joyful that it’s almost effervescent” (!). Please share, and I hope you enjoy!A special thanks to y'all who’ve sent me pictures of your pigeons enjoying looking at/pecking this book. It means the world :>

headspace-hotel reblogged bunjywunjy great-and-small Follow Instead of studying for my exams I spent 40 minutes photoshopping this abomination just so I could send it to someone who asked for an ID on the little black and orange baby grasshoppers in their garden. What’s wrong with me#me#insects#insects cw

headspace-hotel reblogged marzipanandminutiae clubtie Follow I was on a bus once when this guy tapped my knee and pointed out that we were the only two people not looking at their phones and then asked what I was thinking about. sometimes when I’m having a bad day I relive the moment I saw the his manic pixi dream girl hopes draining from his eyes and fill up with confusion and boredom as I explained to him I was thinking about which Rupaul’s Drag Race challenges Frank n Furter would preform best in and locked him into the conversation until it was my stop#queen shit

headspace-hotel reblogged chaoticbooklesbian thegenderal Follow Bread Instagram is INSANEthegenderal HOW ARE YOU HAPPY WITH THIS!!! HOW ARE YOU CELEBRATING. YOUR BREAD IS MISSING ITS BREAD!!!!! YOUR BREAD HAS NO BREAD IN YOUR BREAD!!!! thegenderal thegenderal This guy says it has a “light and airy crumb” YEAH ILL BET!cctinsleybaxter Follow @smallshrimphell​gotinterest Follow Like what kills me is that this is actually pretty impressive. Working with high hydration dough is difficult on it’s own but at 106%!? And to work it just enough to develop the gluten so it doesn’t collapse while also keeping all the gas is hard. Timing the proof would have also been difficult. Looking at that crust they must have a really good oven set up as well. Hot as hell. Probably done in a preheated dutch oven. And all in service... of this. The texture of the bread must be terrible. No fluffiness to it, all tough, thin strands of bread. Crust is probably lovely, but a crunchy dark crust is only nice when it covers lovely light, fluffy, soft bread. It’s the contrast of those textures that makes it work. I like an open airy crumb as much as the next bread maker but this is ridiculous.

headspace-hotel reblogged impr0bablezer0 visual-poetry Follow visual-poetry.tumblr.com»swofehuper« by richard tipping (+)\[via\]mitosisisyourtosis men fabricated the idea that they are the default sex to compensate for their biological inferiority and general superfluousnessthis is not just the “natural order” this is the language of a patriarchal culturerhysiare Follow Omg no, you are wrong on so many levels and as a linguist this makes me ache something terrible. In my linguistics class in undergrad, we actually made fun of people who think like you along these lines and for good reason, because you are wholly ignorant and are choosing to spin narratives about things and fields which you know completely nothing about yet pretend you do.She: This word evolved naturally from Old English from seo/heo which were just words to refer to feminine-female people evolving from Proto-Germanic words meaning ‘that/there’. He as a word evolved from the same ideas but Proto-Germanic words for ‘this/here’. Your idea of “patriarchal language” further falls apart when you compare this part of English to other Germanic languages, of which English is related, the words in German for he and she are “er” and “sie”, completely unrelated. So it is by clear happenstance, not some patriarchal conspiracy that the words “he” and “she” in English have similar form. Woman: Oh god this one always gets my goat when people go for this one. Man did not used to mean “male”, man used to mean “humanity/human being”, the old words in Old English for male adult person and female adult person were “werman” and “wifman” respectively, we can see this relation in words like werewolf and wife as being the remnants of the base “wer-” and the base “wif-”. Woman evolved phonologically from the word “wifman” by natural processes where the ‘f’ sound dropped and the ‘i’ became lax. Man dropped its “wer” stem for reasons mostly unknown but I can guarantee have nothing to do with “patriarchy” because phonological change has no basis in that.Female: Male and Female actually come etymologically from two completely different words. Male comes from Old French “masle” which meant masculine, while Female came from Old French as well “femella” which meant young woman. This is another case, just like he and she, where the words coincidentally ended up looking similar without having any direct correlation in historical linguistic processes to make them as such.Human: This word etymologically derives from Proto-Indo-European “ghomon” which means earthly being as opposed to heavenly being which would refer to gods. You have some small glimmer of hope here in that the word does eventually branch off into the word for “man” in some languages but this is still too small of a precedent to base any conspiratorial thinking like you are doing off of.Person: This one offends me the most, simply because I love the fuck out of Etruscan language and your continued ignorance just irks me at this point. Person derives from “persona” from Latin which meant the same meaning, which ultimately derived from “phersu” Etruscan for ‘mask’ as Etruscans would often have theatre performers use masks to give identity to the performers. So never once did “person” have any meaning to do with “son”. So yes, this IS the “natural order” or language.Please never proselytise your faulty ideology and misandrist thinking within speaking about word origins and morphology again, as unless you actually do fact checking, I will school the everloving hell out of you, stay in your lane.firstdegreeliberty Follow I wish I could like this a million timessaintprocula SWOFE HUPER HE MAN MALE SON

headspace-hotel reblogged yekkes Follow Literally sungodanthos Follow Well obviously y’all don’t know the trash we have to deal with. yekkes Referring to sick people under your medical care as "trash" is really not a good look and uh. Literally proving the point of this video pavelow Follow Not everyone in the hospital is legitimately sick though. Lots of drug seekers and patients are routinely abusive towards hospital staff, particularly towards the people that are working under nursing supervisors that are actually doing most of the legwork. “Trash” probably isn’t the right word but hospital workers do have to deal with genuinely bad people more often than you’d thinkred-shepherds Follow Hey, surprise, it's not cool to disclose the personal details of addicts either, or call them trash. People don't seek drugs for no reason, and disparaging them for it instead of treating the underlying root cause isn't helpful for anything except the healthcare worker who wants to form a superiority complex. There's no excuse for dumping a patient's personal details on the internet, no matter who they are or what they're like. pavelow No one is dumping personal/identifying details online, that’s not even what I’m talking about. I’m talking about the people that come in looking for pills and throw a fit when they aren’t prescribed what they’re trying to abuse. Most of the time they have already refused inpatient/outpatient rehab because they want to get high not get clean. Taking away scarce hospital resources from patients who genuinely need treatment in order to feed a drug habit is much worse than calling someone a mean word onlinecuntess-carmilla Follow Besides your AWFUL views regarding genuine addicts, do you realize how many chronically ill people are falsely accused by healthcare professionals of faking our illnesses just so we can get an excuse to "abuse drugs" that we need to not want to die from our chronic pain?How many of us are denied pain management because you all assume that since our illnesses can't all be easily seen under a microscope we're either lying or mentally ill? As was the case for Multiple Sclerosis (initially called Hysterical Paralysis) until not that long ago, which subjected patients to forced hospitalization with no treatment for their symptoms besides whatever the fuck they were torturing patients with in mid 20th century mental hospitals?Do you have ANY idea of how many chronically ill people kill themselves because we can't take it anymore and how much denying us treatment for chronic pain contributes to that?God, you're a piece of shit.lubefairy Follow Wow they really went and proved that point huhheadspace-hotel Follow I feel so sorry for all the people who have to deal with terrible suffering and pain only to be called "drug seekers" and assumed to be pretending or not really suffering.And I have nothing but disdain and disgust for those who judge suffering people as not deserving of help #chronic pain#ableism#gross!

headspace-hotel Follow Anonymous asked:Hi! I had a request if at all possible. I loved your Wikipedia poems especially the asteroid and strangers ones! But would it be at all possible for you to create a text description of them? Otherwise it only reads essentially as photo photo photo.... I know for several of them, other people have written out text descriptions. Would it help if I reblogged those (again)?

headspace-hotel Follow Sometimes i'm really struck by the tendency of psychology and psychiatry to "other" experiences that aren't part of a strict set of cultural assumptions. Like this is from a book called In This Body by Servando Z. Hinojosa, and it's about Maya spirituality—though my use of the word "spirituality" probably is itself "othering" and reflective of a cultural bias—anyway i was really hit hard by the tendency of outsiders to shove this condition into either a "physical illness" or "mental illness" box, when it's obviously both. and it's both in a way that I feel should be familiar to anyone diagnosed with depression and/or anxiety. Like before I was medicated for anxiety, I was sleepy, fatigued, and nauseated basically all the time. And when I've gone through periods of depression, I get COLD. Physically cold, in a way that just doesn't go away. The description of the lump in the stomach also struck me because I recently read a book where veterans with PTSD described a similar feeling of a physical lump or blockage in their abdomens. Like as I was reading this I was like "Yes, I know this." It's so fucking wild that physical symptoms in response to a "mental" illness are seen as so exotic for people in """western""" frameworks, because we feel these things too, we just learn to think about them differently. In a lot of ways I feel like medicine without the idea of mind-body dualism is the better approach. #random#anthropology#medicine#psychology#psychiatry#culture#emotions#biomedical approach (derogatory)

headspace-hotel reblogged mintchocolatechipisthebestflavor emergency-broadcast-system Follow I wish windows xp would show up at my wedding

headspace-hotel reblogged lubefairy yuri-alexseygaybitch Follow Margaret Atwood to 4chan cum truther speedrun any%catgirlcadaver-deactivated20241 headspace-hotel Follow The shitty republican book i complained about a week or so ago talked about this. it really is like. a Concern. for people on a certain end of the political spectrum

headspace-hotel reblogged lubefairy fedgf1-deactivated20220521 Why is this YouTube preview so homoeroticcrawdad-ciller-deactivated20220 I love it. Bens comfortable dominant seated position. Steve shyly showing the goods, backed up against the table. Crowders in his casuals and a pair of boxers, while Ben keeps it confidently together and well dressed, from the chinos to the button up to his kippah. You just know he’s wearing a belt. He’s in executive control. But you can see in his face that Crowder’s offering him something that he’s willing to give up a little control for. The magnum ice cream looking logo in the middle is a bonus.headspace-hotel Follow i'm thinking high renaissance

headspace-hotel reblogged headspace-hotel Follow I'm developing an interest in Medieval European history that's growing directly out of my extreme distaste for it. Like I dislike Medieval European stuff a great deal. But i've found so many facts that that are disturbing that I need to understand it. I need to know why the guys were so fucked up. I need to know headspace-hotel Some monk in the 13th century: to remain sexually pure, don't even LOOK down at your own naked body and dont touch your dick at all when peeing me: terrible. i need to dissect your psyche like a bug#history#medieval history#medieval europe

headspace-hotel Follow I'm developing an interest in Medieval European history that's growing directly out of my extreme distaste for it. Like I dislike Medieval European stuff a great deal. But i've found so many facts that that are disturbing that I need to understand it. I need to know why the guys were so fucked up. I need to know #history#medieval history#medieval europe

headspace-hotel reblogged headspace-hotel Follow Scythe is getting better; one point where it started to engage me was actually the part where the girl protagonist confessed to pushing a classmate into a moving truck, and later contemplated electrocuting a guy in her class, because holy shit, if you lived in a world where death wasn't permanent, kids absolutely would do stuff like that. And it's pretty fucking chilling to think of like middle schoolers cold-bloodedly murdering kids they didn't like because they knew the consequences wouldn't be lasting—because they TOTALLY WOULD do that. The insight into how the Thunderhead works is pretty interesting, even though the amount of shit that's unrevealed about it makes it look like Chekhov's weapon of mass destruction. I'm not appreciating how often the author finds the opportunity to fat-shame characters so far, especially because he has to explain why the nanobots or whatever haven't made the character thin, which makes it seem very intentional, like. Why would you have a worldbuilding thing where people can just change their metabolism to become skinny, make some characters fat anyway (which, sure! maybe not everyone wants to be thin.) and then be derogatory about it?? dumptruckmaintenance Follow Now I've never read this book so I could be missing something, but that sounds just like regular fatphobia to me. The prevailing notion is that fat people choose to be fat, that through diet or exercise, they could change their metabolism and their weight, and if they don't they must be lazy, gluttonous, etc. "This person could make themselves """better""", but they haven't, fuck them". Sounds the same to me. headspace-hotel Definitely. The first time it came up, I was hopeful that it would be explored well, because it mentioned this girl being not allowed to tweak her nanobots because her mom thought she needed to develop "self control" (that it was a moral issue). I thought, hmm, sounds like a lead-in to some interesting commentary. But later on it gets outright derogatory. ?

headspace-hotel reblogged ctrlvpoetry-blog Follow why we do what we do what we do

headspace-hotel reblogged mcburn catball Follow eating himcatball the rule of eating him is whenever you see it you have to say eating himfon-master-ion Follow eating himcatball thank you eating him#eating him