---
title: "Wolves Upon the Coast - Luke Gearing"
source: "https://lukegearing.blot.im/wolves-upon-the-coast"
author:
published:
created: 2025-02-14
description: "PDF of Book 1 PDF of Book 2 Your history is gone. It was taken from you, or you from it. You were thralls. Now your master lies dead in the bottom"
tags:
  - "clippings"
---
[PDF of Book 1](https://lukegearing.blot.im//files/wolves%20upon%20the%20coast%20book%201%20-%20rules.pdf)  
[PDF of Book 2](https://lukegearing.blot.im//files/wolves%20upon%20the%20coast%20book%202%20-%20magic.pdf)

Your history is gone. It was taken from you, or you from it.  
You were thralls.  
Now your master lies dead in the bottom of a raiding vessel, equipped for adventure. You are free.

*For use with* “Volume 2: Monsters &” *and* “&&&&&&&&& Treasure” *only.*

You have total permission and support to make stuff for and with Wolves Upon the Coast.

A large hexcrawl is available here:

## Book 1: Rules

Your history is gone. It was taken from you, or you from it. You were thralls. Now your master lies dead in the bottom of a raiding vessel, equipped for adventure. You are free.

*For use with* “Volume 2: Monsters &” *and* “&&&&&&&&& Treasure” *only.*

## Characters

There are three Characteristics:

- Strength - measures raw physical power.
- A Strength of 15+ gives a +1 to Hit rolls.
- Agility - measures speed and deftness of action.
- An Agility of 15+ gives a +1 bonus to Dodging Saves.
- Constitution - measures endurance.
- A Constitution of 15+ or more gives a +1 bonus to Physique Saves.

They are generated by rolling 3d6.

There are three Saves:

- Dodging - used to avoid peril. This begins at 15+.
- Physique - used to fight poison and disease. This begins at 13+.
- Warding - used to resist magic. This begins at 17+.

Characters forgoing armour add 4 to their Dodge Rolls. Characters wearing Light Armour add 2 to their Dodge Rolls. Characters wearing Heavy Armour subtract 2 from their Dodge Rolls.

Characters begin play:

- With 3d6\*10 hacksilver worth of equipment. Anything not spent is lost.
- With 1 Hit Dice. This is rolled to determine how many HP they have. All Hit Dice are d6s.
- With an Attack Bonus of +2.
- Knowing 1d6/2 languages.
- A language can be ‘half known’ - this being enough to conduct trade.
- All characters should share at least one ‘half known language’ - the speech of their erstwhile captors.
- Language slots can be ‘held in reserve’, although a character must declare they know a language the first time it is encountered. Some languages cannot be known this way.
- If a language is ‘known’ twice, the character is able to read and write in it.
- Sharing a small raiding vessel (*Karvi*) with twelve rowers - fellow ex-thralls who look to you for leadership. There is enough food and water for all hands to survive for four days. You have travelled two days from the home of your captor.

## Equipment

*A weapons weight determines damage - Light weapons rolling 2d6 and taking the lower value, Medium weapons rolling 1d6 and Heavy weapons rolling 2d6 and taking the highest value.*

| Weapons | Cost | Weight | Special |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Battle-Axe | 10sp | Medium | After damage is rolled, reduce the result by 3 and roll a second attack - if successful, a weapon or shield is ripped from the grip of the opponent. |
| Club | 5sp | Light | Forgo damage to attempt to stun - after a successful attack, target attempts to save vs paralysis - failure results in them losing their combat round. Further strikes against them are at +3. |
| Dagger | 5sp | Light | Throwable. Damage as Heavy against Prone targets. |
| Flail | 8sp | Medium | Ignores shields. |
| Greatsword\* | 40sp | Heavy | Upon a killing blow, the wielder can roll another attack. This effect can be triggered multiple times. |
| Hand-Axe | 6sp | Light | Throwable. If 4+ damage is dealt when thrown, the Hand-axe bounces, ‘attacking’ again. |
| Polearm\*† | 15sp | Heavy | Attack against a nominated adjacent ally are at -2. |
| Poleaxe\* | 20sp | Heavy | AC of target is treated as 7 when attacked. |
| Javelin | 5sp | Medium | Throwable. Can be recovered. |
| Longbow\* | 30sp | Medium | +1 to hit per round spent aiming. |
| Mace | 8sp | Medium | +2 to hit against metallic or rigid armour. |
| Quarterstaff\* | 5sp | Light | Opponents must make a Dodge Save to approach, failure resulting in an automatic hit with this weapon. |
| Shortbow\* | 15sp | Medium | Can split move and fire (i.e. move fire move). |
| Shortsword | 8sp | Light | *Riposte* twice. |
| Sling | 1sp | Light | Can be used to launch grenades. |
| Spear† | 4sp | Medium | Wielder may choose hold their attack until someone tries to approach them - they then roll an attack first. |
| Sword | 12sp | Medium | *Riposte* once. |
| Two-Handed Axe\* | 25sp | Heavy | If a 6 is rolled for damage, roll another d6 and add the result. This effect can be triggered multiple times. Attacks against the wielder are at +1. |
| Warhammer\* | 25sp | Heavy | Those struck are thrown backwards if unable to make a Physique Save. Use the damage rolled to determine distance, minus the HD of the creature struck. |

*These Specials are just the beginning. Players and Referees should look beyond them.*

† Denotes a weapon with reach, being able to strike from behind another.

Riposte: Attacks against the wielder which score below 7 (before AC is applied) result in the wielder being able to attempt a counter-attack, resolved normally.

Arrows cost 1sp each. Five sling bullets cost 1sp.

| Armours | Cost | AC |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Unarmoured | Free | 9 |
| Leather (Light) | 15sp | 7 |
| Maille (Medium) | 75sp | 5 |
| Full-Length Maille (Heavy) | 150sp | 3 |
| Byzantine Plate (Medium†) | \- | 3 |
| Shield | 15sp | \-1 |

†*Byzantine Plate is treated as Medium armour for Initiative and Saves despite the protection it affords. As such, no modification to Saves are made, and their AC is treated as 5 when determining Initiative.*

Before damage is rolled, a shield may be sacrificed to negate a single strike. This only works for conventional strikes - other, specific types of shields might stop magical attacks.

### Encumbrance

Characters may carry items equal to their AC plus 5. 250 coins count as an item. Worn or wielded equipment does not count towards this limit. Characters carrying over this amount are encumbered. They move at half-speed, and are liable to drop items and fall. Characters carrying double this are overburdened. They are exhausted by any sustained movement. Beasts of burden may carry 24 items.

| Supplies | Cost | Supplies | Cost |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Backpack | 5sp | Mirror, Large Metal | 10sp |
| Bandages(5) | 10sp | Mirror, Small Silver | 20sp |
| Bottle | 5sp | Mirror, Small Metal | 5sp |
| Box, Large Iron | 30sp | Net | 10 sp |
| Box, Small Iron | 15sp | Oil, Pint Flask | 5sp |
| Candle, Tallow | 1sp | Pole, 10’ | 5sp |
| Candle, Wax | 2sp | Ration, Dry Day | 5sp |
| Cart | 50sp | Ration, Trail Day | 2sp |
| Case, Map | 5sp | Rope, 50’ Silken | 70sp |
| Checkers | 5sp | Rope, 50’ Hemp | 5sp |
| Chest, Large Wooden | 15sp | Sack | 1sp |
| Chest, Small Wooden | 8sp | Shovel | 5sp |
| Compass | 100sp | Shovel, Wooden | 5sp |
| Crowbar | 5sp | Water or Wineskin | 15sp |
| Dice | 2sp | Skiing Equipment | 15sp |
| Flint & Steel | 5sp | Sled | 20sp |
| Grappling Hook | 10sp | Sleeping Bag | 2sp |
| Hammer & Wooden Stakes | 5sp | Snare | 1sp |
| Laboratory (portable) | 150sp | Iron Spike | 3sp |
| Lantern, Bullseye | 12sp | Tent | 15sp |
| Lantern, Hooded | 7sp | Tinderbox | 10sp |
| Lock-Picks | 25sp | Torches (6) | 1sp |
| Map, Local | 20sp | Wagon | 150sp |

| Livestock | Cost | Livestock | Cost |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Chicken | 1sp | Mule | 20sp |
| Cow | 10sp | Ox | 15sp |
| Dog | 15sp | Pigeon | 1sp |
| Donkey | 8sp | Piglet | 1sp |
| Goat | 3sp | Pig | 3sp |
| Hawk | 20sp | Pony | 15sp |
| Horse, Draught | 30sp | Sheep | 2sp |
| Horse, War | 200sp | Songbird | 25sp |
| Horse, Riding | 25sp |  |  |

### Tests

If discussion does not offer an obvious resolution, a suitable Characteristic may be tested. Players attempt to roll under the Characteristic on a variable number of d6s to succeed. Easy tasks with consequences for failure use 2d6. Challenging tasks use 3d6. Hard tasks use 4d6. Items or abilities which help (or hinder) should modify the number of dice rolled.

### Saves

Saves are called for when discussion is unsuitable - often as a consequence of action.

Dodging is used to avoid peril. A 15 or more must be rolled. Physique is used to fight poison and disease. A 13 or more must be rolled. Warding is used to resist magic. A 17 or more must be rolled.

To save, a character must roll a d20. This roll may be modified.

In the case of monsters, ask each of these questions:

- If a monster is fast, it adds +4 to it’s Dodging saves.
- If a monster is tough, it adds +4 to it’s Physique saves.
- If a monster is magical, it adds +6 to it’s Warding saves.

### Combat

Combat is conducted in rounds of 6 seconds. To determine order, all Player Characters roll a d10. Those rolling equal-to or under their AC act first. Then all opponents act, and finally those rolling over their AC act. This should be rolled each round. Hirelings and followers act with their leaders.

To make a standard attack, roll 1d20 and add any attack modifiers and the AC of the opponent. If this value is 20+, the opponent is struck and damage is rolled.

Light weapons roll 2d6 and take the lowest result. Medium Weapons roll 1d6. Heavy weapons roll 2d6 and take the highest result.

The damage rolled is subtracted from the HP of the target. NPCs hitting 0 HP are dead. Player Characters hitting 0 HP die in 2 turns without assistance.

#### Monsters

Monsters add half their HD (rounded up) to all attack rolls. Monsters with 1-3 HD make one attack per round. Monsters with 4-6 HD make two attacks per round. Monsters with 7+ HD make three attacks per round.

#### Combat Complications

- Unaware mortals are instantly slain if the attacker has time to ensure a killing blow, can mitigate any armour etc.
- Prone characters are automatically hit with melee weapons.
- Characters take +2 to their Attack Roll for each other person striking the same target.
- Mounted characters take +3 to their Attack Roll against unmounted foes, and deal 2d6 with a weapon that can be couched.

### Healing

Per nights rest, characters recover 1HP per HD. A full day spent doing nothing recovers 3HP per HD.

### Reaction

When attitudes are uncertain or chaos desirable, roll 2d6 and consult the table below. Reputation may modify this roll, a strong opinion eliciting a ±4.

| 2d6 | Reaction |
| --- | --- |
| 2- | Hostile |
| 3-5 | Negative Inclination |
| 6-8 | Disinterested |
| 9-11 | Positive Inclination |
| 12+ | Friendly |

Determining what these results in the situation is a matter of experience and extrapolation. It may also reveal facts about the group - especially extreme results necessitating explanation.

### Morale

Friends and foes alike must test their morale in strenuous situations.

To do so, roll 2d6 for each group. On a 7+, their morale holds. This roll may be modified according to familiarity, cultural taboos etc. A ±1 represents a minor factor and a ±2 a major factor. A ±3 obviates the need for a morale check.

| 2d6 | Action |
| --- | --- |
| 2- | Disorganised retreat - those left behind surrender. |
| 3-6 | Organised retreat. |
| 7+ | Morale holds. |

Common events triggering morale checks include:

- Reduced to 50% of their fighting strength.
- Reduced to 25% of their fighting strength.
- Death or retreat of a leader.
- Ambushed.
- Presence of massive or horrific foes.
- Seeing a friendly group fail a morale check.

### Companions & Hirelings

For every 1000sp of wealth owned, a character may attract and support 1 Companion who requires a 1/2 share of all loot obtained.

Hirelings are salaried employees. As many as can be paid may be hired. Non-combat hirelings are usually 2sp a day, whilst mercenaries charge according to their equipment.

| Type | Cost/day | Attributes |
| --- | --- | --- |

Skirmisher Footman | 10sp | AC 6/7 HD 1+1 Marine | 12sp | AC 7 HD 1+1 Armoured Footman | 20sp | AC 4/5 HD 1+2 Horsemen | 40sp | AC 4/5 HD 1+1

### Boasts

A Character who makes a Boast of Heroic Proportions either gains 1HD or +1 Attack Bonus in addition to any wager or reward offered by others If they are found to shirk their Boast, they lose the HD or Attack Bonus and may never again Boast. Those failing the Boast lose the HD or Attack Bonus, but may try again or make another Boast.

Only one Boast can be pending at a time.

A friend or Rival may up the stakes of a Boast if present when it is made - for each complicating factor, another HD or Attack Bonus may be added. If this new Boast is refused, the challenger takes up the Boast instead - with the complication they specified.

## Travel

*Hexes are assumed to be 6 miles across.*

## Abreast the Sea

Between the lands march whale-roads. The ships of the north are able to travel the deeper seas where no land may be seen, before snaking into rivers to find plunder inland. Others are bound to the coast, existence liminal.

Vessels have a default movement which is modified by wind-speed. Ships able to drop sails can elect to ignore such modifications and use only muscle-power.

| Ship | HD | Speed - # Hexes per Day | Encumbrance Carried | Crew | Value |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Raft† | 1 | 3 (3) | 20 | 1 | 10sp |
| Boat† | 2 | 4 (4) | 40 | 2-10 | 50sp |
| Karvi† | 4 | 6 (4) | 60 | 8-24 | 1000sp |
| Knarr | 5 | 7 (3) | 100 | 8-12/2 | 2000sp |
| Snekkja† | 6 | 8 (4) | 100 | 20-50 | 3000sp |
| Galley, Small | 6 | 8 (3) | 160 | 50/10 | 5000sp |
| Galley, Large | 8 | 10 | 360 | 120/30 | 8000sp |
| Skeid† | 9 | 9 (5) | 240 | 60-80 | 10000sp |

Values given in parenthesis are for River travel. If sailing against the current, halve this number again. Those vessels marked with a † do not require a port - they are light enough to be beached. Smaller vessels can even be carried.

The Karvi, Snekkja and Skeid are crewed by Marines only. Others will have separate crews of Crew and Marines, as shown by the slash. These values are standard - loads are changed according to purpose.

Value is the ransom paid for the return of a captured vessel - triple this to pay for a new one. This is in addition to the value of any goods carried.

### Wind

| 2d6 | Wind Strength | Effect |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 2-3 | Calm | None |
| 4-8 | Light Breeze | +1/+1 |
| 9-11 | Strong Breeze | +2/+1 |
| 12 | Gale/Storm | +3/+2 |

Wind conditions persist for 1d6 days. Characters know of a storm 1 day before it arrives - roll Wind ahead of time.

Determine initial direction randomly. Then, each day, roll 1d6.

| 1d6 | Direction Change |
| --- | --- |
| 1-2 | 1 Direction ‘left’ |
| 3-4 | No change |
| 5-6 | 1 Direction ‘right’ |

If the Wind is behind the Vessel, increase the number of hexes travelled a day by the first value listed in the Wind Strength chart. If it is ‘adjacent’ - 1 direction distant - add the second value. Otherwise, ignore the wind. (e.g. NE and NW both speed a vessel travelling North.)

#### Storms

Vessels in a storm have a 30% chance of capsizing per day. Capsized vessels lose any loose cargo, and have a 40% chance of sinking before being righted by the crew. All encounters with other ships are ignored.

### Becoming Lost

Characters may see into adjacent hexes. Mountains are visible from 4 hexes away. Weather conditions may hamper visibility. When no landmark (e.g. coast, mountain, lighthouse) can be seen, characters have a 2-in-6 chance of becoming Lost if they have no Navigator. Hide any map and continue play without reference to it, until they are able to re-establish their location. Movement is in a random direction.

There is a 4-in-6 chance of becoming Lost during a Storm.

### Naval Encounters

Unless conditions are poor or there is a submarine element, encounters on Coasts and the Ocean are spotted at a distance of a hex. Reaction should be used for unknown groups.

If the curvature of the river is unknone, River encounters are spotted at 3d6\*10’.

The tables below can be used where no regional encounter table has been prepared, although results will need modification. By default, there is a 1-in-6 chance of an encounter each day.

| 1d12 | River | Coast | Ocean |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | Merchants | Merchants | Merchants |
| 2 | Merchants | Merchants | Pirates |
| 3 | Merchants | Patrol (local lord) | Raiders |
| 4 | Patrol (local lord) | Pirates | Raiders |
| 5 | Patrol (local lord) | Pirates | Wreck |
| 6 | Pirates | Raiders | Fishermen |
| 7 | Pirates | Raiders | Merfolk |
| 8 | Raiders | Fishermen | Merfolk |
| 9 | Fishermen | Fishermen | Wandering Isle |
| 10 | Fishermen | Wreck | Wandering Isle |
| 11 | Wreck | Merfolk | Sea Monster |
| 12 | River Monster | Sea Monster | Sea Monster |

Merchants, Patrols and Pirates in Rivers use Boats and local equivalents of Karvi. Upon the Ocean, any vessel could be found.

Raiders use Karvi, Snekkja and Skeid.

On rivers, only single vessels are encountered. On the coast, groups of 1d6 vessels are encountered. Vessels are usually crewed by 1d6 fewer people than the ship’s maximum crew count. On the coast, 2d10 Merfolk appear. Upon the ocean, they number 2d20.

### Naval Combat

Naval combat is conducted in Turns of 1 minute each.

Artillery and sea-monsters may attack Ships directly. Mortals must instead rely upon fire or boarding.

Melee attacks against vessels automatically hit. Ranged weapons treat them as AC 7 - to account for firing from a moving platform. Hand weapons deal no damage - artillery and the strength of monsters is sufficient to deal damage normally. If a 6+ is rolled, the boat may begin Sinking.

Fire deals 1d6 damage. If a 1 is rolled, the fire reduces in size - roll one dice less next round. If a 6 is rolled, the fire has increased in size - now roll 2d6 for damage.

#### Ramming

Ships in this era are not designed for ramming. A ship performing a ram takes 1d6 damage. It deals 1d6 for each remaining HD to the target. If a 6 is rolled on a damage dice, that ship may begin Sinking.

#### Boarding

Characters may leap from one vessel to the next as part of boarding. This requires a 2d6 Agility test. Marines automatically succeed. Combat is then had on the vessel. Note this means 10 ‘normal’ Rounds of combat happen per naval Turn.

#### Sinking

When a vessel may begin sinking, roll 1d6 - on a 1-3, it is fine. On a 4-6, it begins sinking. This process takes 3d6 Turns. If half the crew works to save the vessel, it might (70% chance) avoid this fate. This takes 1d6 Turns, and cannot be done if under attack.

Any further Sinking result halves the time left before the vessel sinks.

#### Drowning

Those in the water for a full naval Turn, or flung into the water, risk drowning. Characters must roll under their AC on a d20 to avoid drowning.

## Upon the Land

Most kings survey their entire dominion by eye on a clear day. Empire has broken under it’s own weight - struggles are local even as threads of trade and exchange are woven over months of sailing. Isles weighed down by fen and bog know the spices of desert lands. All know the best steel is in the south, and that the silver pennies with holes in the centre are accepted in all ports. Ruins stud the landscapes, and many halls lie haunted.

### Travel

| Method of Travel | Speed - # Hexes per Day |
| --- | --- |
| On Foot | 2 |
| Wagons/Carts | 3 |
| Horseback | 4 |
| Horses, Ridden to Death | 6 |

Horses Ridden to Death have a 2-in-6 chance of dying each day, and are useless by the end of the journey.

Inclement terrain (thick woods, bogs, and mountains) lacking a road halves movement - round fractions down.

#### Becoming Lost

From a good vantage point, characters may see into adjacent hexes. Mountains are visible from 4 hexes away. Weather conditions may hamper visibility. When no landmark (e.g. mountain, hill, road, town) can be seen, characters have a 2-in-6 chance of becoming Lost. Deserts and Swamps increase this to a 3-in-6 chance. Hide any map and continue play without reference to it, until they are able to re-establish their location.

Movement is in a random direction.

### Encounters

Every 12 hours, an Encounter roll should be made on a chart prepared for the area.

In the case of an Encounter, consider if either party is aware of the other - factors such as light and sound being major determinants. Unaware parties are surprised 2-in-6 of the time.

If a group is surprised, encounters begin with parties 1d6

## Beneath the Earth

Beneath the earth, warrens, ruins, underworlds unseen by the sun. Things slink. Nightmares breed and multiply and fester. Beasts lair and stalk forth when the light of day is extinguished.

### Timekeeping

Time is measured in 10 minute intervals - Turns. Each turn, there is a 1-in-6 chance of an Encounter, using a prepared Encounter table for the location. Most major activities take 10 minutes - searching for traps, unlocking doors, clearing obstacles etc. After combat or an hour’s exploration, most parties require a Turn of rest - those pushing beyond this take a penalty of 2 to any d20 rolls made until they rest for two Turns.

### Light

Beneath the Earth there is no light - those who would plumb the depths should carry their own. A torch burns for an hour (6 turns) whilst a pint of lantern oil burns for 4 hours (24 turns). Those who dwell beneath the Earth have often learnt to see without light through long centuries groping in the darkness.

### Movement

Cautious movement allows for 240’ to be covered in a single Turn. This allows for mapping, trap checking, close observation of darkness. Those abandoning caution could quadruple this, but are sure to become lost and stumble into any ambushes, trigger any traps etc.

### Encounters

In the case of an Encounter, consider if either party is aware of the other - factors such as light and sound being major determinants. Unaware parties are surprised 2-in-6 of the time.

If a group is surprised, encounters begin with parties 1d6

## Postscript

The great tool of Creation is the knife.

## Book 2: Magic

---

title: Wolves Upon the Coast subtitle: Book 2 - Magic author: Luke Gearing mainfont: Vollkorn geometry: margin=1in papersize: b5 —

Effects beyond the mundane are achieved through the invocation of properties or through pacts with the supernatural.

## Spells

## Alter Self

*One Use:* Consume a simulacrum of the target crafted with their hair and blood mixed with 100 chrysalises/cocoons. *1/day:* Blasphemous induction into the Doppelganger cult. Unspeakable rites and child sacrifice.

The caster is able to reshape themselves in the image of another humanoid. Lasts 36 Turns.

## Animal Growth

*One Use:* The blood of a pregnant animal mixed with stewed lilac, left to brew for a year. Flicked at the target.

1d6 Animals become Giant (*see Volume 2: Monsters &*) for 12 Turns.

## Animate Dead

*One Use:* The teeth of a Hydra are scattered over the area.

5d6 Skeletons rise from the earth, bound to the will of the caster.

## Anti-Magic Shield

*One Use:* A circle described with ‘’chalk’ formed from diamond-dust and dragonbone.

No magic may pass through, under or over this barrier - those within are utterly immune to magic.

## Baleful Polymorph

*One Use:* A fragment of undifferentiated Chaos, thrown as a javelin and fuelled with malice.

The victim is transformed, as desired by the caster.

## Bless

*One Use:* Blast upon a horn wrenched from the skull of a Satyr or Narwhal. *1/day* Blast upon a horn gifted by the unicorn. Allies of the caster receive a +1 to Hit and to Morale for 6 Turns.

## Charm Monster

*One Use:* Craft a mask of the creatures to be charmed, using their skin, blood, hair and horn. For each HD, 1 corpse must be processed. *1/day:* Become a monster yourself. This one of the paths a man could walk to leave mortality behind.

3d6 HD of creatures are bound to the will of the caster. Orders antithetical to their nature cause them to break free if they are able to make a Warding saving throw.

## Charm Person

*One Use:* A thick pearlescent slug, gathered from the home of Dryad and spat at the target. *1/day:* Ascend a mountain of stunning beauty with twelve companions, all of equal drive and knowledge. One may descend the mountain alive, cursed with this power.

A single human or post-human must make a Warding saving throw - if failed, they are bound to the will of the caster. Orders antithetical to their nature cause them to break free if they are able to make a Warding saving throw.

## Circle of Invisibility

*One Use:* Powder derived from the eyes of a Medusae is scattered in the area.

All within this area are subject to *Invisibility.*

## Circle of Protection

*One Use:* The caster coats their mouth with blessed oils and performs glossolalia effortlessly. The origin of the blessing determines whom the protection is effective against. *1/day:* The prospective caster is tattooed with exhortations and banishments, using ink from a giant squid or a gall harvested from a centuries-old tree.

All those within the are are subject to *Protection.*

## Clairvoyance

*One Use:* A fragile blade of obsidian must be used to open the casters forehead, allowing their presence to slip forth. *1/day:* The caster is trepanned using a drill of star-metal which is discarded in a pool unsullied by fish.

The caster’s awareness is freed form the body, and able to travel up to half a mile from their body for 36 Turns. They may not pass through lead or 20’ of stone.

## Cloudkill

*One Use:* The lungs of certain dragons, formed into bellows.

A thick, heavier-than-air poisonous fog is summoned. Those caught within must make a Physique save or die wretched deaths.

## Colour Spray

*One Use:* Behead a light-drinking cave-eel. *1/day:* The eye-lens of a beached whale is held up before a light-source.

A glare of alien colours stuns those unable to make a Warding save, rendering them unable to take action for 1d6 rounds.

## Comprehend Languages

*One Use:* A local, poisonous serpent must be swallowed alive. Lasts 1d4 days.\_1/day:\_ An ancient grammar must be recovered and eaten. *Permanent:* The casters tongue is split open with a golden sickle beneath a moon hidden behind the fallen Tower of Babel.

All languages may be understood, spoken, read and written.

## Confusion

*One Use:* The skull of a hermit, filled with poppy-seeds is shaken like a rattle, inflicting the spell upon those who hear it.

Up to 3d6 HD of creatures become confused - they defend themselves 2-in-6, otherwise uncomprehending eyes stare at a world untethered from system.

## Continuous Light

*One Use:* The heart of a dead forge is tossed towards the target. *1/day:* Some fragment of a sun must be swallowed.

An area is permanently light by actual sunlight, emanating from a source chosen by the caster.

## Control Water

*One Use:* The true name of the body of water must be invoked. Being transient, the name will change each time.

Water may be commanded to allow passage through it or to rise up and flood an area.

## Control Weather

*One Use:* Gather the first fledgling bird hatched in the area. Gather the first-born mammal born in the area. Gather the first-spawned amphibian in the area. Commingle their blood and their flesh beneath the sky and make your demand.

The caster determines which weather permanently affects the region.

## Cure Critical Wounds

*One Use:* A salve brewed from the blood of a Troll and bitter roots. Each Troll corpse yielding enough for a single dose after successive reductions.

3d6+2 HP is restored.

## Cure Light Wounds

*One Use:* Harvest the herbs and mushrooms from the grave of a witch unburnt. Boil them down. Spread upon wounds. *1/day:* Accept a Subtle Spirit into your protection. They are hard to find, and make demands upon you. Counts as a hireling.

1d6+1 HP is restored.

## Cure Serious Wounds

*One Use:* Flesh for flesh - a bath of blood.

Every 1HD of creature blood spilled heals 1HP. Can be used by multiple people.

## Curse

*One Use:* Release a dirge on a horn wrenched from the skull of a 6HD or less Demon. *1/day:* Release a dirge on a horn wrenched from the skull of 7HD or more Demon. The enemies of the caster are subject to a penalty of -1 to Hit and to Morale for 6 Turns.

## Darkness

*One Use:* Burst the eye of a mother fox or bat. Fling the pulp. *1/day:* Make a home for darkness in your chest cavity - a glazed clay sphere, inserted surgically. Alternatively, find some Talking Darkness and strike a deal. Total darkness suffuses an area, out to the distance a torch would illuminate. No light may pierce such magical darkness. Lasts 24 hours.

## Detect Invisibility

*One Use:* Three drops of fluid left by ghost in each eye. *1/day:* Replacing an eye with a huge pearl.

The caster can always see *Invisible* creatures.

## Detect Magic

*One Use:* A drop of pure-white or pure-black dog blood in each eye. *1/day:* Replacing an eye with a lump of quartz.

All magic within eyesight reveals itself for 3 Turns.

## Dimension Door

*One Use:* A dagger prepared with the blood of a Realm Spider is used to describe a door.

The caster teleports anywhere within line of sight by stepping through the door they drew.

## Disintegrate

*One Use:* A fragment of Outer Dark, released from a container, snakes outwards.

A single target is destroyed. They may make a Dodging saving throw at -4.

## Dispel Magic

*One Use:* Salt from a dead ocean, cast at the enchanted object. *1/day:* Leaving a limb in a jar of salt, allowing all moisture to be drained away - leaving only a withered limb.

Removes magic not bound into an object.

## Enervate Dead

*One Use:* Blessed lily-smoke is released from a container. The smoke seeks the restless dead.

4d6 Undead are frozen in place for 12 Turns.

## Fear

*One Use:* A mask-and-cape of Wolf-Hide is worn. *1/day:* Kill a primordial wolf-mother and re-enact the Birth of the First Wolves.

All opponents of the caster make a Warding saving throw. NPCs who fail must flee for six Turns. Characters who fail may not engage in combat with the caster for six Turns.

## Fireball

*One Use:* Throw the shrivelled heart of a salamander, stored in cooking oil. *1/day:* Sojourn to a Place of Fire and sacrifice a limb to the beings within.

A ball of flame explodes, dealing 5d6 damage to all in a 50’ radius. Victims may make a Dodge saving throw to halve damage received.

## Fly

*One Use:* A bar of goose-fat, hemlock and nightshade berries is smeared on the body. A feather of gold is crushed. *1/day:* Become spouse to a griffon or similar. *Permanent:* Become a Sphinx or Harpy.

Fly, travelling at triple-speeds through the air. Lasts for 1d6 Turns.

## Fog Wall

*One Use*: The caster swallows eight frogs whole to charge the spell - vomiting out fog at will. *1/day:* Deliver freedom to a mist-wight.

A 20’ thick bank of fog rolls in. It is immobile and opaque.

## Hallucinatory Terrain

*One Use:* A vellum map with diamond-dust infused inks is produced, describing the illusory terrain. It is then burnt.

Creates an illusionary overlay which can hide, exaggerate or entirely change the underlying geography. At a distance, it is flawless.

## Haste

*One Use:* Consume the meat of a bird or hare killed by lightning. *1/day:* Survive being struck with lightning.

Hasted creatures always go first in initiative, and take a second set of actions after all other actions are resolved. Lasts 3 Turns.

## Hold Monster

*One Use:* Break the legs of a statuette found in iron slag and wrapped in the flowers of an invasive species.

1d6 monsters are rendered immobile if they fail a Warding saving throw.

## Hold Person

*One Use:* Break the legs of a wood figurine unshaped by blades and buried for two months.

1d6 humans are rendered immobile if they fail a Warding saving throw.

## Hold Portal

*One Use:* The caster fills the mouth with gravel and holds a fragment of the portal between their teeth. *1/day:* Devotion to the Opener of the Way - through the murder of those bound to capture and imprison people - at least one every two months.

A single opening or portal is magically locked, unable to be opened without destroying the surroundings or the casters permission.

## Insect Plague

*One Use:* Innumerable evils must be laid upon the caster, who is willing to give their flesh up as a brood-chamber for the imminent swarm. They are destroyed utterly in the process.

A thick carpet of insects spreads across the land. All organic material is devoured. The sun is blotted out. Starvation follows. The insects die a cannibal frenzy, devouring one another as all else is gone beneath wing and limb.

## Invisibility

*One Use:* Powdered silver is cast into the air. As long as the caster does not disturb the particles with their breath, the effect is retained. *1/day:* The eyes of three members of royalty must be formed into a necklace. *Permanent:* Infection from an Unseen. Spread through bite.

As long as caster does not take hostile action, they cannot be seen.

## Knock

*One Use:* A valuable key of unknown origin and use is broken. *1/day:* A small pact with the Opener of the Way to capture and imprison at least one human being a month.

A single portal becomes unlocked.

## Levitate

*One Use:* A bar of goose-fat, hemlock and nightshade berries is smeared on the body. A feather of silver is crushed.

The caster levitates up to 6” above the ground. Lasts 6 Turns.

## Light

*One Use:* Charcoal from an arson is crushed and wet into a paste. The paste carries the enchantment. *1/day:* Drill a hole into the top of the skull to let the light in - and then pour it forth from the mouth. Light, as if cast by a torch, flows from an object as determined by the caster. Lasts 12 hours.

## Lightning Bolt

*One Use:* Burn the ring-finger of a Cloud Giant, and blow the ash at the target. *1/day:* Feed your right hand to Wraith dwelling beneath the Riven Oak.

A bolt of lightning is flung, dealing 4d6 damage to the victim. It passes directly through the victim, potentially injuring others. It might (4-in-6) bounce of any hard surface, doubling back. All victims may make a Dodging saving throw to halve damage received.

## Locate Object

*One Use:* The skull of a bloodhound (or similar scenthound) is filled the skulls of nine different species of rodent. This rattle is then shaken, the sound an indicator of direction.

The caster gains an intuitive sense of where a known or thoroughly described object is, able to unerringly navigate towards it for 3 days. In the case a general class of object is Located, they are led to the nearest instance of it.

## Magic Jar

*One Use:* A soul-vessel is prepared, requiring a huge investment in research, blood and treasure. The transferral ritual takes a full month, during which the body must be maintained by others - any lapse in concentration causes failure. This one of the paths a man could walk to leave mortality behind.

The soul of the caster is moved to the soul-vessel. The spirit may leave and attempt to animate soulless bodies or vie with other souls for control of their own bodies. In this case, both make a Warding saving throw. If one passes and the other fails, they gain/retain control of the body. If both fail, the body dies, leaving only the caster. If both succeed, they now cohabitate the body.

## Move Earth

*One Use:* The hateful, parasitic Peak Crown flower is planted in the earth, where one wishes the earth to move to. The earth moves to destroy it, hills converging like wolves.

1d6 hills or equivalent move to the location violently, destroying structures and disrupting armies.

## Neutralize Poison

*One Use:* Bronze is poured over a de-fanged venomous snake. The resulting wand is waved at the envenomed object. *1/day:* A poison-gland from a live serpent, worn around the belt and milked every morning, can drain the poison from objects. This fetish is useless if the donor serpent dies.

An envenomed object or creature is purified, rendered harmless.

## Passwall

*One Use:* A fragment of a chisel from lost Uruk is used to mark a passage. Close your eyes and wait 1 minute.

Creates a tunnel up to 5’ in diameter and 15’ deep. The tunnel is permanent.

## Phantasm

*One Use:* A sheet of gold-foil is folded into a paper approximation of the Phantasm to be evoked. *1/day:* The caster must break down the barrier between their own imagination and perception through massive hallucinogen usage and several mystical revelations.

An illusionary creature is animated and given life - convincing enough to deal real damage. Those observing closely may make a Warding saving throw to disbelieve the Phantasm - banishing it in doing so.

## Plant Growth

*One Use:* The caster imbibes a brew of rich loam and five lambs. They then cut themselves and flick their blood over the area.

The vegetation in an area rapidly grows, becoming an impassable tangle in minutes.

## Polymorph

*One Use:* The caster wills themself into a new form over weeks of visualisation, will and deprivation. This new form is hidden in the confines of the mind and invokes through certain gestures and forms. Of course, in hindsight, they never changed form at all.

The caster transforms themselves into a new form.

## Project Image

*1/day:* The caster murders themselves in a different dimension or space, gaining the ability to invoke this other-self.

An illusion of the self is projected forth and acts as double - albeit one under control. Physical attacks pass through it harmlessly - magical attacks are redirected to the caster. Lasts 6 turns.

## Protection

*One Use:* The caster anoints the target with blessed water. The origin of the blessing determines whom the protection is effective against.

Those the Protection is against take a -2 penalty on To Hit rolls against those under effect of a Protection. Lasts 6 Turns

## Protection from Missiles

*One Use:* A bundle of arrows, each used to kill, is snapped. *1/day:* A charm made of golden arrowheads, each used to kill a man, is worn.

All normal missiles glance harmlessly from the target of this blessing. Lasts 12 Turns.

## Sixth Sense

*One Use:* The dessicated head of a shark, pierced with two rods of silver, is used as dowsing rod. *1/day:* A series of slender copper, silver and gold rods are inserted into the vertebrae of the prospective caster.

The caster is able to hear the surface thoughts of all beings within 60’, and determine distance and direction to each creature ‘heard’. Lasts 12 Turns.

## Slaying Spell

*One Use:* A natural rat-king is killed with a mallet.

10d6 HD of creatures die, starting with the nearest to the caster. Those with over 6HD are entitled to a Warding saving throw to resist.

## Sleep

*One Use:* A bear’s fecal plug is smoked and exhaled. *1/day:* The caster travels through Dream and back out again in a single sleep.

2d6+2 creatures are robbed of wakefulness, sleeping for 24 Turns if undisturbed.

## Slow

*One Use:* Mud gathered from an ocean trench is flung. *1/day:* A herd of one hundred and one lamed horses must be kept alive by the caster or their estate.

A single target makes a Warding saving throw. If failed, they are Slowed - acting only every other round. Lasts 3 Turns.

## Speak with Animals

*One Use:* The tongue of a pig and the brain of an owl are left to fester in a buried jar for six months. The resulting fluid is imbibed. *1/day:* A series of platinum tongue-sheaths, corresponding to different manners of beasts, can be crafted.

For 6 Turns, the caster is able to converse with animals.

## Speak with Dead

*One Use:* Through the use of divinatory methods, vague and uncertain answers can be interpreted.

The caster may ask 1d6 questions of a corpse. The corpse does not have to answer, although many have craved communication in their long repose.

## Speak with Plants

*One Use:* Sap flowing through the veins allows speech with plants - and is sure to cause death.

For 6 Turns, the caster is able to understand and be understood by plants.

## Stone to Flesh

*One Use:* The waters flowing from the eyes of petrified gods and demons are filled with the will to return to flesh.

Stone becomes flesh.

## Teleport

*One Use:* Meteoritic iron-dust and ambergris, thrown at the ground.

The caster, or victim, is instantly transported to a location familiar to the caster.

## Transmute Rock to Mud

*One Use:* The heart of a dormant volcano, topping a copper spike which is driven into the rock.

A 30’ by 30’ area of stone becomes mud, collapsing tunnels and crushing those within to death.

## True Seeing

*One Use:* The eyes of black cat - the runt of the litter. *1/day:* Spectacles carved from the skull of a hermit.

For 18 Turns, all illusions and magical visual alterations do not affect the caster. All hidden objects reveal themselves. The true nature of any magically changed item or creature is obvious.

## Turn Undead

*Each burial practice has their own rituals to drive the dead back to their graves. The beliefs of the corpse in life are all that matter.*

## Wall of Fire

*One Use:* The blood of a star, or other being of flame, is used to draw a line.

As long as the caster concentrates, a wall of fire, 5’ thick, 15’ long and 20’ high rages. Those attempting to move through it take 3d6 damage and are set alight.

## Wall of Ice

*One Use:* The residue left by a *Wall of Fire* can be boiled and re-used.

A wall of ice, 5’ thick, 15’ long and 20’ high forms instantly. A single blow dealing over 10 damage is required to destroy it. Unbroken, it melts over 6 Turns.

## Water Breathing

*One Use:* A dried powder of frog-mother and buoyant seaweed is snorted. Drying the powder takes weeks. *1/day:* Gills are tattooed using the blood of a giant moray eel.

For 12 turns, the caster and ten companions may breath underwater.

## Web

*One Use:* A huge golden web of delicate threads is folded back into a small nugget. As it is thrown, it boils away, revealing the web it represents. *1/day:* An infestation of spiders in the blood - introduced in egg-form and kept sated with sacrifice.

A ball of web explodes outwards - all in a 30’ area may make a Dodging saving throw. Those failing are stuck fast in magically regenerating web which fights to keep them immobile. This web is highly flammable. Giants are their like are strong enough to ignore the Web. It lasts for 3 Turns.

## Witch Eye

*One Use:* The eye of a witch, inflated as a balloon.

Acts as a detached third eye the caster may see through at any distance. It is invisible, and moves through the air at the pace of walking person. It lasts for 6 Turns.

## Warding

The base Warding save represents an innate protection against ill magics. These are supplemented with the use of protective charms.

Unless noted otherwise, a character may only benefit from one such charm a day although many may be carried. Uses involving the application of a charm after the fact do not count for this limit. (*Ex: A character may be daubed in the blood of a Bear and re-roll a save using an unguent of Betony. They would not benefit from the blood of a bear and wearing a garland of Betony.*)

Each Ward lists where it may be found, followed by a number 1-6: this is the x-in-6 chance of discovering the plant per half-day spent searching. 2d6 ‘doses’ are found where appropriate - otherwise a single instance. Such wards must be specifically sought - the odds of chancing upon such things is low.

*Plants are only effective for 2 weeks after being picked unless specifically turned to a powder or unguent as per the description.*

## Blood

The stuff of life, and charged with energy.

**Bear** - The blood of a bear, worn as a second skin, forgoes fear and domination. +4 Warding vs Mind-Altering spells. Faroe (1), Frania (1).

**Bird** - The blood of a bird smeared over the face guarantees freedom from magical chains and bindings. +6 Warding vs Mobility-reducing effects. All (6).

**Cat** - Taken from a black cat with nary a speck of white, and daubed at the arm-pits, groin and neck, a counter-charm. +2 Warding. Settlements (5), Wilderness (3).

**Child** - An extreme rite reserved by the Druids. The life of one for the protection of another. +6 Warding. Settlements (6).

**Dog** - Douse the hands and lips in the blood of a hound and know your form and freedom. +3 Warding vs Body-Affecting spells. Settlements (6), Wilderness (3).

**Fish** - The alien blood of fish, rubbed into the scalp, confuses and repels the spirits of the land. +2 Warding vs land-bound spirits. Water (5).

**Horse** - A bath of horse-blood marks a warrior as ready to die by weapons, not sorcery. +3 Warding vs mortal magic users. Settlements (5), Wilderness (2).

**Whale** - The blood of the deep, rich in evil and malice, drunk til the belly rejects it and vomits it back out as pink foam. +4 Warding. Ocean (4).

**Wolf** - Drinking deeply of wolf-blood with companions creates a bond against enchantment. +1 Warding per companion also drinking of wolf-blood to a maximum of +5. All (3).

## Betony

A purple flowering plant. Worn as a garland, it protects against the spirits of the dead. Chewed and eaten at dusk, it protects the imbiber against sorcery until the sun next rises. It can also undo paralytic magics if applied to victims as an unguent. +4 Warding vs Ghosts. +6 Warding vs Spells at night. Re-roll Save against Paralysing magic at +4.

Ruislip (2), Fortu (1), The Black Strath (2), Ergyng (3), Hwicce (3), Moerheb Weald (4), Kark (1), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (2), Ortaq (3), Knartu (3), Rhus (3), Faroe (1), Noos (2), Cnivian Kingdom (1), Frankia (3), Brecheliant & Amorica (4), The Marches (3).

## Casting-Away

The casting away of weapons, shoes and humans is a charm to pre-empt related misfortune. Splitting open the skull of a magician grants +3 Warding for the duration of a journey.

## Chanting

Chanting the names of saints, the titles of a singular god or the names of a pantheon grant a modicum of protection. This must be done for 3 concurrent rounds to have an effect, granting +1 Warding. Such Chanting can be done for d6 rounds +1 per point of Constitution above 10.

## Cold-Stones

Flat heavy pebbles painted with the geometric magic of the Pictish druids. Ran across the brow of one beleagured by magical ailments, they are said to alleviate symptoms. Carried in the pocket, they provide some small luck. Re-roll Save against Disease/Poison magic at +6. +1 Warding.

## Cowslip

Yellow flowers and a stem said to prophecy the seasons. A tea made from the petals protects against ailments natural and otherworldly. +2 Warding vs Disease/Poison magic.

Ruislip (3), The Black Strath (1), Ergyng (3) Hwicce (3), Moerheb Weald (1), Kark (4), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (3), Rhus (2), Faroe (2), Noos (3), Cnivian Kingdom (1), Frankia (5), Brecheliant & Amorica (2), The Marches (2).

## Dragon Arum

A flower from southern climes which stinks like rotting meat. The oil squeezed from the fleshy petals protects against serpents and sea-monsters. Cooked, the leaves are an abortifacient. +5 Warding vs Serpentine or Sea-Monster effects. If a petal is aboard a ship, re-roll the first River/Sea-Monster encounter per journey.

## Dogs

What has not been said of loyal companions whose senses extend beyond human sight, human hearing and human sensitivity? A ghost-white hound protects the heart, a red dog the mind, and a dog raised in a church the soul. +1 Warding vs Fear effects. +2 Warding vs Mind-Altering effects. +1 Warding. These benefits can be concurrent with other charms, although only one dog may be benefited from.

Settlements (6), Wilderness (3). Dogs of a specific colour must be found at specialised breeders, and command lofty prices.

## Elecampane

Bright yellow flowers, open to the world and drinking it in. Those in Albann know it as a sign of elves, and leave it well alone. Eaten, others know it to fortify healing magics and protect the lungs. Warding automatically fails vs Elves. +1 to Healing rolls from magical sources. +4 Warding vs Inhaled effects.

Cnivian Kingdom (4), Frankia (4), Brecheliant & Amorica (2), The Marches (3).

## Eye Talismans

Blue, white and black, the circles ensnare one another and form a mirror for malignant gazes and glares. +2 Warding vs Gaze-based magic. Successful saves cause the sources to also make a Warding save.

## Faces

The face of a monster seen, slain and recreated in paint upon a shield grants +3 Warding against any who have not seen such a creature. This benefit can be concurrent with other charms.

## Gargoyles

Leering figures and depictions of evil greater than the terrors that stalk the earth, or so it is hoped. Supernatural beings make a Morale Check. On failure, bearer takes +3 Warding vs them.

## Hazel

The hazel-tree affords protection to those who shelter beneath her branches. Some small nugget of this is remains within the nuts she spreads upon the ground, which protect against all things that creep upon the earth. +4 Warding for those beneath the branches - this benefit may be concurrent with other charms. +1 Warding vs all and an additional +3 Warding vs legless beasts.

Ruislip (2), Fortu (2), The Black Strath (3), Ergyng (2) Hwicce (2), Moerheb Weald (3), Kark (1), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (2),Rhus (2), Faroe (2), Noos (1), Cnivian Kingdom (2), Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (3), The Marches (3).

## Hawthorn

Known for its pungent smell, this stink permeates across realities. This stench unweaves and undoes the magics of the dead. Destroying a Hawthorn is a cursed act. +5 Warding vs Spirits and Undead. -6 Warding for 2 years.

Ruislip (2), Fortu (2), The Black Strath (3), Ergyng (2) Hwicce (2), Moerheb Weald (3), Kark (1), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (2),Rhus (2), Faroe (2), Noos (1), Cnivian Kingdom (2), Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (3), The Marches (3).

## Heather

The highlands of Fortu are purple and white with heather. Ale made of the purple is said to give luck and courage in equal measure. The white, which grows only where no blood has been shed, is said to be a charm against violence when worn. 1 Warding or +2 Warding vs Fear effects. Automatic Save once against damage-dealing magical effect - but the sprig is destroyed.

Ruislip (1), Fortu (5), The Black Strath (2), Ergyng (1) Hwicce (1), Moerheb Weald (1), Kark (3), Abhaus (2), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (1).

## Hellebore

Flowers in many colours, none to be trifled with. The black purges the mind and body, explosively. The white numbs pain and distances the imbiber from reality. The green is said to be a cure for sadness, although this is just a cruel joke. Re-roll Warding vs Mind-Altering effects at +6 - regardless of success, bed-bound with violent diarrhoea. No effect. Physique save or painful death.

Cnivian Kingdom (4), Eastern Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (1).

## Herb Paris

A leafy plant producing but one single berry. Crushed and smeared on the brow, it prevents the mind being bewitched. Eaten whole, it is poisonous. +4 Warding vs Mind Altering effects. Physique save or painful death.

Cnivian Kingdom (2), Frankia (2), Brechliant & Amorica (1), The Marches (1).

## Holly

The prickly rich-green leaves of the holly nestle rich red berries in the deepest winter. Wearing the leaves in the hair protects against enchantment. The berries, worn in a bunch, repel lightning. +2 Warding. +6 Warding vs Lightning-based effects.

Ruislip (2), Fortu (2), The Black Strath (3), Ergyng (2) Hwicce (2), Moerheb Weald (3), Kark (1), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (2),Rhus (2), Faroe (2), Noos (1), Cnivian Kingdom (2), Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (3), The Marches (3).

## Horses

The work of an animal does not end in death. The skull of a horse with a name makes for a cumbersome protective charm. If still enrobed in flesh, the head is a dire curse. +3 Warding. 1-in-6 chance of splitting per successful save.

Settlements (5), Wilderness (2).

## Horseshoes

A perennial charm of fortune. +1 Warding. If purchased for this purpose, no effect - they must be found, or stolen.

Settlements (2), Wilderness (1).

## Ivy

Creeping vines bind buildings tight and worm through the smallest gaps. Those within are protected from magics flung towards the building. +3 Warding for all inside. This benefit can be concurrent with other charms.

All (5).

## Mullein

A candle made of these leaves gives a low, guttering flame. Those within the meagre light of such a candle are protected from the machinations and enchantments of witches. +6 Warding vs mortal magic users.

Mountains (3).

## Oak

A wood of stout reputation and deep strength. A shield of oak stops magic as well as blades. A pocket of acorns protects against all comers, and a leaf around the neck cuts through illusions. A shield of oak may be sacrificed to add +6 to a failed Warding save. +1 Warding. +4 Warding vs Illusions.

All (3).

## Penises

Invaders from the south bore charms of winged penises - the laughter they caused said to distract malign forces. +1 Warding. +2 Warding if a ribald joke is made using the charm.

## Pocket Figures

Carved figures of saints, gods and heroes are widespread and multivarious. Each has a story, and are said to protect from that which they overcame. Heroes and Saints grant +2 Warding against that which they overcame in their stories. Gods grant +1 Warding against things within their dominion, and against anything they opposed.

## Rosemary

Blue flowers and green-needles sprout from this storied plant. A garland of flowers worn or a twig carried protects against invisible things. +4 Warding vs Spirits and incorporeal beings.

Monasteries and Churches (4).

## Rowan

The orange-red berries of the rowan are each marked with a five-pointed star - an indicator of their potency. Ground to a paste and smeared on a shield, they protect the wielder. +4 Warding til the paste dries entirely (~2 Hours).

Ruislip (1), Fortu (3), The Black Strath (3), Ergyng (1) Hwicce (1), Moerheb Weald (2), Kark (3), Abhaus (2), Faroe (3).

## Rue

Blue-green leaves also known as witchbane, and for good reason. A bundle of leaves can be burnt, those inhaling the smoke protected against magic. +3 Warding vs mortal magic users. Those breathing this smoke are unable to cast spells. Lasts 4 hours.

Cnivian Kingdom (2), Roman Ruins (1).

## Sulphur

A mineral eager to burn and release it’s terrible stink, all those breathing in the pungent smoke fall to retching but are purified of foul enchantment. Re-roll Warding at +6. Physique save to not lose d6 rounds to vomiting.

## Verbena

The purple flowers of the Verbena, worn in a pocket, distract malign forces. +3 Warding. After a single successful save, the flower withers and becomes useless.

All (2).

## Writing

The written word, whether latin script or ancient runes, has a magic of its own and can protect against other forms. Markings in common materials give +1 Warding against exactly what they describe. Markings in sea-beast ink and monster-blood taken from a 5HD+ creature grant +2 Warding against a category of threat. Runes in crushed diamond mixed with royal blood may grant +3 Warding forever more, power condensed into a single phrase or marking. Sea-beast ink and monster-blood may be used to create tattoos, which grant +1 Warding permanently. This benefit can be concurrent with other charms. Up to two such tattoos may be worn, but the second must be sourced from a higher HD creature than the first.

## Yarrow

White and lilac flowers, pounded to a poultice and spread upon the back, are said to instill bravery enough to face down the unworldly. +6 Warding vs Fear effects.

Ruislip (2), Fortu (2), The Black Strath (1), Ergyng (2) Hwicce (2), Moerheb Weald (1), Kark (1), Abhaus (1), Argadnel (1), Ortaq (1), Knartu (2),Rhus (2), Faroe (2), Noos (3), Cnivian Kingdom (2), Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (1), The Marches (2).

## Yew

Another storied tree, the berries used to avoid capture - the eaters escaping into death. It has authority over the dead, and demands they remain asleep. Shields of yew carry this charm with them. +4 Warding vs effects from the undead beneath a Yew tree. +3 Warding for a yew-shield bearer.

Ruislip (1), Fortu (1), The Black Strath (1), Ergyng (2) Hwicce (2), Moerheb Weald (3), Rhus (2), Faroe (1), Cnivian Kingdom (1), Frankia (2), Brecheliant & Amorica (2).

## Appendix 1: Turn Undead

The unhappy dead forced to walk each respond to different banishment rituals, depending upon their faith in life. The teaching of such rites is often restricted to the upper echelons of the faiths - or their agents. Turned undead flee the area, making no attacks.

Christian and Muslim dead resist turning. They were raised early, their covenant broken. All they desire is revenge upon the cruel world. A holy symbol of silver may drive them back, although they make a Warding Save to resist. Each makes this save individually, and those passing are immune to further attempts.

The Druidic dead are turned by the flinging of earth gathered from the roots of an oak tree. 2d6HD of undead are driven back per round.

The dead of the ancient Norse are turned through recitation of deeds - for each successful Boast recounted, 1d6 of undead are turned.

The dead of Noos are turned with sea-water, becoming calm and still when doused with a cups worth.

The dead of the Marches do not attack those reciting the names and lineages of Belgic ancestors. Many has pass-phrases woven into them as part of their raising process.